Question 5.5.4. Question 4. Exam Style Questions.
The area. A. of a given square can be represented by: A(P) equals
P squared over 16 where P is the perimeter of the square. for
P greater than or equal to 0. This question is worth 5 marks.
Find the value of A(20). [1 mark]
A(20) equals (20)^2 over 16 equals 400 over 16 equals 25
A(20) equals 25
Draw the graph of the inverse function A inverse. [3 marks]
Reflect in y equals x. The inverse of P squared
over 16 is A inverse(x) equals 4square root of x.
Key points: (0. 0) stays. (20. 25) maps to (25. 20).
Square root curve from (0. 0) through (25. 20).
Explain the meaning of A inverse(4) equals 8. [1 mark]
A inverse converts area to perimeter.
A square with area 4 cm² has perimeter 8 cm.
IB exam tip: For "explain the meaning" questions. always
refer back to the real-world context (area. perimeter. etc.).